As we saw in the previous video function calls have a certain amount of overhead.
We need to create an activation record.
Push it on the stack.
Deal with parameters pop off the activation record when the function terminates and deal with the return
addresses and return values.
Although all of this can happen very quickly and efficiently.
It still happens sometimes we have a very simple function and the function call overhead might be greater
than the time spent executing the function.
In cases such as these we can suggest to the compiler that it generate inline code inline code is basically
inline assembly code that avoids the function call overhead inline code is generally faster.
But if you inline a function many times then you're duplicating a function code in many places and it
could lead to larger binaries.
That said compilers are so sophisticated now that they'll likely inline code even without your suggestion.
Let's see what an inline function looks like.
Here you can see the syntax for an inline function.
We simply precede the function return type with the keyword inline inline functions are usually declared
in header or dot h files.
Since the definition must be available to every source file that uses it.
As mentioned earlier compilers are so good now that most will make short functions like this inline
anyway even if you don't provide the inline keyword.
Don't worry too much about asking the compiler to inline your functions but now you know what inline
functions are in case you see them and C++ code out there.